The turnip or white turnip (Brassica rapa subsp. rapa) is a root vegetable commonly grown in temperate climates worldwide for its white, fleshy taproot. Small, tender varieties are grown for human consumption, while larger varieties are grown as feed for livestock. The name turnip – used in many regions – may also be used to refer to rutabaga (or neep or swede), which is a different but related vegetable.[1] 
The origin of the word turnip is uncertain, though it is hypothesised that it could be a compound of turn as in turned/rounded on a lathe and neep, derived from Latin napus, the word for the plant. According to An Universal Etymological English Dictionary, turn refers to "round napus to distinguish it from the napi, which were generally long".[2] 
The most common type of turnip is mostly white-skinned, apart from the upper 1 to 6 centimetres (1⁄2 to 2+1⁄2 inches), which protrude above the ground and are purple or red or greenish where the sun has hit. This above-ground part develops from stem tissue but is fused with the root.[citation needed] The interior flesh is entirely white. The root is roughly globular, from 5–20 cm (2–8 in) in diameter, and lacks side roots. Underneath, the taproot (the normal root below the swollen storage root) is thin and 10 cm (4 in) or more in length; it is often trimmed off before the vegetable is sold. The leaves grow directly from the above-ground shoulder of the root, with l
ittle or no visible crown or neck (as found in rutabagas).[citation needed] 
Turnip leaves are sometimes eaten as "turnip greens" ("turnip tops" in the UK), and they resemble mustard greens (to which they are closely related) in flavor. Turnip greens are a common side dish in southeastern U.S. cooking, primarily during late fall and winter. Smaller leaves are preferred. Varieties of turnip grown specifically for their leaves resemble mustard greens and have small roots. These include rapini (broccoli rabe), bok choy, and Chinese cabbage. Similar to raw cabbage or radish, turnip leaves and roots have a pungent flavor that becomes milder after cooking.[citation needed] 

Turnip roots weigh up to 1 kilogram (2 pounds), although they are usually harvested when smaller. Size is partly a function of variety and partly a function of the length of time a turnip has grown. 